[MUSIC]
>> Douglas: So
this one's gonna be totally trivial.
So I'm just gonna give you the solution.
We're just gonna do this because it's
going to set up the next problem, okay?
So we're gonna write a function
m that takes a value and
an optional source string and
returns them as an object.
And in this case, instead of
simply passing things to the log,
I'm gonna be using JSON.stringify
to make strings of the object
because it turns out object.toString
is completely worthless.
It doesn't show you anything
about what's in the object.
It's just not worth it.
JSON.stringify, on the other hand
does a fairly good job of showing you
what's in the object.
So, in this case the stringification of
m(1) is an object where the value is 1 and
the source is the string 1,
we make the string of the value.
If we pass in a second argument,
then that second argument
will be the source property.
So if we pass in pi and the word pi,
the value will be pi, and
the source will be pi.
So this is the function,
the constructor that does that.
So go ahead and type this in,
I'll give you a minute and then we'll
go on and we'll do the next problem.
>> Douglas: Write a function
addm that adds two m objects and
returns an m object.
So you can imagine we could have a
regulatory requirement that not only do we
provide results, we also provide extreme
detail on how we obtained the results.
So this is a way to help automate that.
So, if I add two m objects,
I get an object where the value is the sum
of the values, and the source is
the concatenation of the two values,
of the two sources with a plus sign and
parents around them.
>> Douglas: So, if we add m3 and
m4, the source will be (3 + 4).
And similar thing happening with PI.
Okay, so here is addm.
addm takes two m objects,
it returns a new m
object where the value will be the sum
of the two values and the string, or
the source will be
the concatenation of the sources.
So who got something works?
Did anybody do it the hard way?
Yeah, first rule of object related
programming, let the objects do the work.
We already have a nice constructor and we
want to use it because there is a chance
that we might change what m does and
so we want all of the instances
to take advantage of that.
So if you didn't get this one,
write it down because we're going
to need it for the next one.
>> Douglas: Okay, are we ready?
So, write a function liftm that
takes a binary function and
a string and
returns a function that acts on m objects.
So we've done this before, right?
If we passed the add function to liftm and
also the plus string, it will make
a function that works exactly like addm.
And we can do the same thing passing,
multiply, an asterisk or
any binary function.
So this will help us to automate
the process of building
this system of journaling arithmetic.
>> Speaker 2: Do you need to do the check
on the source whether it's string or?
>> Douglas: No, if we try to concatenate
it with the strings it will be force to be
a string.
>> Speaker 2: Can you
show the problem again?
>> Douglas: Okay, here is liftm.
liftm takes a binary function and
an op string, it returns a function that
takes a and b, it returns a new m object
where the value will be the result of
the binary function on the two values, and
the source will be the concatenation
of the sources of the op string.
So who got liftm, way to go.
So, if any of you ever heard of monads?
Monads, the Haskell guys talk about them
all the time, you just made a monad so
you can go home and tell your kids,
made a monad today.
He did that, all right.
>> Speaker 3: So, what is a monad?
>> Douglas: So, a monad is a thing
where you can take functions and
lift them up to a higher level where they
can have or acquire some new capability.
The Haskell community uses them
because there's a trap in Haskell.
Haskell is a brilliantly
designed language and
one of the characteristics about it is
it does not allow any kind of mutation.
So all functions are pure functions
in the mathematical sense and
that's a really interesting thing,
except that if your programs have to
interact with the real world, the real
world is constantly mutating, right?
And something like a account balance
cannot be a constant, right?
It's got a very and they can't even
do IO in a mutable system, right?
You can't have anything coming in,
you can't have anything going out
because nothing can ever change.
So, that kind of made things
practically real hard for them and
they'd figure out this trick with monads
which by using a higher order functions
and really clever ways,
they can have the appearance of mutation
without actually mutating anything.
>> Douglas: But that's for another time,
anyway you made one of those, so
congratulations.
So if you didn't write,
if you didn't get this function,
you should have it now cuz we're
gonna use it again in just a second.
So is everybody ready to move on?
Okay, so here's the next problem.
Modify function liftm so
that the functions it produces can accept
arguments that are either numbers or
m objects.
So to make this a little bit easier
to use, you can pass in any number,
you don't have to explicitly
wrap it with m first.
So and
we'll just change liftm to do that, okay?
And make it really flexible so
that you can pass in a number or
an m object or two m objects or
two numbers, any combination will work.
>> Speaker 3: You can choose three or
four arguments or
>> Douglas: No,
it will take two arguments.
>> Speaker 3: One, liftm or-
>> Douglas: Or a number.
>> Speaker 3: Or a number, okay.
>> Douglas: Okay, here is liftm.
So the change I made was in the box.
I just looked at the type of the argument.
And if it is a number,
I call m to turn it into an m object.
So who got something that works?
Very good.
Who did it the hard way?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Douglas: Where you didn't do that.
[LAUGH] Yeah, so first rule of objects.